The dataset I have leveraged is a publicly available data source obtained from the World Bank Open Data, where they publish global development data, entitled “Sustainable Energy for all.”  The SE4ALL initiative was launched in 2010 by the UN Secretary General in order to “ensure universal access to modern energy services, to double the global rate of improvement in global energy efficiency and to double the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix” (SE4ALL database, IEA and World Bank) by 2030.  

After reviewing the shape of the data, although the dataset has 2849 rows, there are only 259 unique “Country Names” represented, as each one is repeated for the each of the 11 indicators recorded.  Furthermore, not all “Country Names” are, in fact, country names, but also include other categories such as high income / low income as well as regions of the world (Northern America, South Eastern Asia, World).  I have cleaned up the dataset by deleting an unnamed column and renaming the column headings to remove unwanted spacing and allowing for more dynamic coding.  I may want to remove null values at a future point in time but have left them for the time being as I decide how I want to view my overall dataset.

To further explore the data, I decided to filter on one indicator name to gain some further insight at either the country level or over time to direct my analysis.  Since the indicator code field is a categorical field, I have created indicator variables to get dummy variables to act as a filter.  This can be achieved by either joining or concatenating the new Dataframe onto the original dataset.

By sorting on ‘Access to Electricity’ for both rural and urban populations and calling the describe function, I can see the count of countries with access to electricity increasing over time as well as the fluctuation in mean percent access to electricity by country.  A bar plot of this data, selecting just one year, shows all how all the countries compare against one another.  This graph is not particularly useful as it is difficult to read no matter what dimensions are input into the figure size.  More importantly, however, it would be more beneficial to look at this trend over time, focus my question to sub-select a particular country or region, or investigate how certain indicator variables interact with one another.

Before I decide how to proceed I would like to see the overall trend over time, but since my Years are represented in the wide data format, I have unpivoted the data using the pandas melt function to convert the Years into a single column, creating a new DataFrame, now with 5957 rows.

I certainly have all the data I will need available within this dataset, but may want to tailor my question to gain more useful information as I continue to explore the dataset and uncover new information.  

Since historical data is available for my predictions, I will be using supervised machine learning to address my question, starting with linear regression to plot the trend over time.  I can also use polynomial features and decision trees or random forests to predict the relationship between renewable energy consumption and output for rural vs. urban populations vs. those who only have access to clean fuels and technologies for cooking.

